[Music]
[Applause]
so I want to talk a little bit about
seeing the world from a totally unique
point of view
in this world I'm going to talk about is
the micro world I found after doing this
for many many years that there's a
magical world behind reality and that
can be seen directly through a
microscope and I'm going to show you
some of this today so let's start off
looking at something rather not so small
suddenly we can see with our naked eye
and that's a bee so when you look at
this bee it's about this size here it's
about a centimeter but to really see the
details of the bee and really appreciate
what it is you have to look a little bit
closer so that's just the eye of the bee
with a microscope and now all of a
sudden you can see that the bee has
thousands of individual eyes called
ommatidia and they actually have sensory
hairs in their eyes so they know when
they're right up close to something
because they can't see in stereo as we
go smaller here is a human hair a human
hair is about the smallest thing that
the eye can see it's about a tenth of a
millimeter and as we go smaller again
about ten times smaller than that is a
cell so you can fit ten human cells
across the diameter of a human hair so
when we look at cells this is how I
really got involved in biology and
science is by looking at living cells in
a microscope when I first saw living
cells in the microscope I was absolutely
enthralled and amazed at what they look
like so if you look at the cell like
that from the immune system they're
actually moving all over the place
this cell is looking for foreign objects
bacteria things that it can find and
it's looking around and when it finds
something and recognizes it being
foreign it will actually engulf it and
eat it so if you look right there it
finds that a little bacterium and it
engulfs it and eats it if you take some
heart cells from an animal and put in
the dish they'll just sit there and be
that's their job every cell has a
mission in life and these cells the
mission is to move blood around our body
these next cells are nerve cells and
right now as we see and understand what
we're looking at our brains and our
nerve cells are actually doing this
right now they're not just static
they're moving around making new
connections and that's what happens when
we learn as you go farther down this
scale here that's that's a micron or a
micro a micrometer and we go all the way
down to here to a nanometer and an
angstrom now an angstrom is the size of
the diameter of a hydrogen atom that's
so small that is and microscopes that we
have today can actually see individual
atoms so these are some pictures of
individual atoms each bump here is an
individual atom this is a ring of cobalt
atoms so this whole world the Nano world
this area in here is called the Nano
world and the Nano world the whole micro
world that we see is a nano world that
is wrapped up within that in the hole
and the and that is the world of
molecules and atoms but I want to talk
about this larger world the world of the
micro world so if you were a little tiny
about living in a flower what would that
flower look like if the flower is this
big it wouldn't look or feel like
anything that we see when we look at a
flower so if you look at this flower
here and you're a little bug if you're
on that surface of that of that flower
that's what the terrain would look like
the petal of that flower looks like that
so the ant is kind of crawling over
these objects and if you look a little
bit closer at this stigma and the stamen
here this is the style of that flower
and you notice that it's got these
little these are like little jelly like
things that are what are called Spurs
these are these are nectar Spurs so this
little ant that's crawling here it's
like it's in a little willy wonka land
it's like a little Disneyland for them
it's not like what we see these are
little bits of individual grain of
pollen there and there and here is a
what you see is one little yellow dot of
power
when you look in the microscope it's
actually made of thousands of little
grains of pollen so this for example
when you see bees flying around these
little plants and they're collecting
pollen those pollen grains that they're
collecting they pack into the into their
legs and they take it back to the hive
and that's what makes the Beehive the
wax and the Beehive and they're also
collecting nectar and that's what makes
the honey that we eat here's a close-up
picture or this is after a regular
picture of a water hyacinth and if you
have really really good vision with your
naked eye you'd see it about that well
there's the stamen in the pistil but
look what the stamen and the pistol
looks like in the microscope that's the
stamen have thousands of little grains
of pollen there and there's the pistol
there and these are the little little
things called trichomes and that's what
makes the the flower give a fragrance
and plants actually communicate with on
it with one another through their
fragrances I want to talk about
something really ordinary just ordinary
Sam I became interested in sand about
ten years ago when I first saw a sand
from Maui and in fact this is a little
bit of sand from Maui so Sam is about a
tenth of a millimeter in size each sand
grain is about a tenth of a millimeter
in size but when you look closer at this
look at what's there it's really quite
amazing you have micro shells there you
have things like coral you have
fragments of other shells you have
olivine you have bits of the volcano
there's a little bit of the volcano
there you have two worms an amazing
array of incredible things exist in sand
and the reason that is is because in a
place like this Island a lot of the sand
is made of biological material because
the reefs provide a place where all
these microscopic animals or macroscopic
animals grow and when they die their
shells and their teeth and their bones
break up and they make grains of sand
things like coral and so forth so here's
for example a picture of sand from from
Maui this is from Lahaina and when we're
walking along the beach we're actually
walking along millions of years of
biological and geological history we
don't realize it but it's actually a
record of that entire
ecology so here we see for example a
sponge stick you'll see bits of coral
here that's a sea urchin spine really
some amazing stuff so when I first
looked at this I was I thought gee
there's like a little treasure trove
here I couldn't believe it might go
around the second the little bits out
and making photographs of them here's
one most of the sand in our world looks
like these are quartz crystals and
feldspar so most say on in the world on
on the mainland is made of quartz
crystal and fell as far as the erosion
of granite rock so mountains are built
up and they erode away by water and rain
and ice and so forth and the become
grains of sand there's some stand that's
really much more colorful looser sand
from near the Great Lakes and you can
see that it's filled with minerals like
pink garnet and green epidote all kinds
of amazing stuff and if you look at
different sands from different places
every single beach every single place so
you look at Sam it's different here's
from Big Sur like their little jewels
there are places in Africa where they do
the mining of jewels and you go to the
sand where the rivers have the sand go
down to the ocean and it's like
literally looking at tiny jewels through
the microscope so every grain of sand is
unique every beach is different every
single grain is different there are no
two grains of sand alike in the world
every grain of sand is coming somewhere
and going somewhere it's there they're
like a snapshot in time now sand is not
only on earth but sand is ubiquitous
throughout the universe in fact outer
space is filled with sand and that sand
comes together to make our planets and
the moon and you can see those in micro
meteorites this is some micro meteorites
that the army gave me and they get these
out of the drinking wells in the South
Pole and they're quite amazing looking
and these are the tiny constituents that
make up the world that we live the
planets and the moon so NASA wanted me
to take some pictures of moon sand so
they sent me sand from all the different
landings of the Apollo mission that
happened 40 years ago and I've started
taking pictures with my
three-dimensional microscopes this was
the first picture I took
it's kind of amazing I thought it looked
kind of a little bit like the moon which
is sort of interesting now the way my
microscopes work is normally in a
microscope you can see very little at
one time so what you have to do is you
have to refocus the microscope to keep
taking pictures and then I have a
computer program that puts all those
pictures together into one picture so
you can see actually what it looks like
and I do that actually in 3d so there
you can see the left eye view there's a
right eye view so sort of left eye view
right eye view now something's
interesting here this looks very
different than any sand on earth that
I've ever seen I've seen a lot of sand
on earth
look at this hole in the middle that
hole was caused by a micro meteorite
hitting the moon now the moon has no
atmosphere so micro meteorites come in
continuously and the whole surface of
the moon is covered with powder now
because for four billion years it's been
bombarded by micrometeorites
and when microwave meteorites come in at
about twenty to sixty thousand miles an
hour they vaporize on contact and you
can see here that that is that sort of
vaporized and that material is holding
this little clump of little sand grains
together this is a very small grain of
sand this whole thing and that's called
a ring agglutinate and many of the
grains of sand on the moon look like
that and you'd never find that on earth
most of the of the sand on earth on the
moon especially and you know when you
look at the moon there's the dark areas
in the light areas the dark areas are
lava flows they're basaltic lava flows
and that's what this sand looks like
very similar the sand that you would
look like that you would see in
Haleakala other sands when these micro
meteorites come in they they vaporize
and they make these fountains these
microscopic fountains that go up into
the and I was going to say up into the
air but there is no air go sort of goes
up and they and these microscopic glass
beads are formed instantly and they
Harden and by the time they fall down
back to the surface of the Moon they
have these beautiful colored glass
sphere Ewell's and these are actually
microscopic you need a microscope to see
these now here's a grain of sand that is
from the moon and you can
see that the entire crystal structure is
still there this this grain of sand is
probably about three and a half of four
billion years old and it's never eroded
away like the way we have sand on earth
erodes away because of water and
tumbling air and so forth all you can
see is a little bit of erosion down here
by the Sun has these solar storms and
those that that's erosion by solar
radiation so what I've been trying to
tell you today is things even as
ordinary as a grain of sand can be truly
extraordinary if you look closely and if
you look from a different and a new
point of view I think that this was best
put I William Blake when he said to see
a world in a grain of sand and I haven't
been a wild flower hold infinity in the
palm of your hand and eternity in an
hour thank you
[Applause]
[Music]
you